Update SIG page with SC terms; add 2023 SC elections post (#86)
dh-tech/dh-tech.github.io: content/blog/2023-09-28-sc-elections.md

---
layout: post
title: DHTech Steering Committee Elections 2023
date: 2023-09-28T12:00:00
author: Cole Crawford
tags:
- WhatsHappening
thumbnail: /images/vote.jpeg
featureImage: /images/vote.jpeg
featureImageAlt: photo of a crowd in an auditorium with many people raising their hands
featureImageCap: Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@theunsteady5?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Edwin Andrade</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/4V1dC_eoCwg?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a>
excerpt: This November we are planning to hold the first official Steering Committee elections. This blog post summarizes the key responsibilities and tasks of the Steering Committee.
url: 2023-sc-elections
---

> DHTech has been an ADHO Special Interest Group since 2021. This November we are planning to hold Steering Committee elections for two-year terms. Four out of the seven Steering Committee seats will be up for election. To give people an idea of what it involves to be on the Steering Committee, this blog post will summarize the key responsibilities and tasks of the Steering Committee. We hope that this will encourage some people to nominate themselves as candidates in the upcoming elections.

Reviewer: How about this to make clear, there is only an election if we have more candidates that open spots?
```suggestion
DHTech has been an ADHO Special Interest Group since 2021. For the upcoming two-year term (2024-2025), four seats on the Steering Committee need to be filled. Any member of DHTech is eligible to nominate themselves for one of the spots. Should we have more than four nomination, there will be an election. To give people an idea of what it involves to be on the Steering Committee, this blog post will summarize the key responsibilities and tasks of the Steering Committee. We hope that this will encourage some people to nominate themselves as candidates.
```

## What does the Steering Committee do?
The DHTech Steering Committee supports the DHTech community by planning events, maintaining the community website and Slack workspace, and providing a contact for ADHO in regards to our Special Interest Group (SIG) status. For example, we have organized workshops and panels at ACH2021, DH2022, and DH2023 as well as presented posters. We have organized a few virtual meetups for the DHTech community to discuss topics and present projects. We also maintain the DHTech website (dhtech.github.io) and mailing list. 

> While the Steering Committee members contribute to these activities in form of creating content and organizing meetups, workshops, etc., part of the responsibility is simply finding people to take ownership of certain projects, being on top of the tasks that need attention, and providing an overall vision of how DHTech can support its community. Since this year, the Steering Committee also decides what to do with the small budget that we receive from ADHO for being a SIG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the Steering Committee members contribute to these activities in form of creating content and organizing meetups, workshops, etc., part of the responsibility is simply finding people to take ownership of certain projects, being on top of the tasks that need attention, and providing an overall vision of how DHTech can support its community. The Steering Committee also decides what to do with the small budget that we receive from ADHO for being a SIG.
```

## What is the time commitment?
The Steering Committee meets virtually monthly (currently on the last Thursday of every month at 9am ET/3pm CET). Usually an agenda is being sent out prior to the meeting with discussion points. Our meetings are typically one hour long. Besides that, being part of the Steering Committee involves a few hours a month to plan events such as the DHTech meetups or conference workshops, write blog posts, participate in subgroups, and maintain the DHTech website. 

## Am I the right person to be on the Steering Committee?

> If you have a few hours each month to give to DHTech, then yes, you are! There is no other requirement to be on the Steering Committee except a desire to support the community and help DHTech grow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a few hours each month to give to DHTech and are a DHTech member (no matter when you joined), then yes, you are! There is no other requirement to be on the Steering Committee except a desire to support the community and help DHTech grow. 
```

## What do I need to do to nominate myself?
If you want to nominate yourself as a candidate for the 2023 DHTech Steering Committee elections, please fill out [this form](https://forms.gle/9UR38QcT3h4ash2TA). You will need to provide your name, affiliation, and a short statement (e.g. about who you are and why you want to be on the DHTech steering committee). 

## What’s the election timeline?

> Nominations are open until Friday, November 10, 2023. After November 10, we will put the information about all candidates on our website. The election period will be from November 20 to December 1. All DHTech members will be able to vote for one candidate. We will send out a membership confirmation email before November 20. If you do not get one but believe you are a member of DHTech, please get in touch with Julia (jdamerow@asu.edu).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nominations are open until Friday, November 10, 2023. If we have four valid nominations and all candidates are still willing to serve on the committee, those candidates will be on the Steering Committee for the next two years starting in January 2024. Should we have more than four nominations, we will put the information about all candidates on our website. The election period will then be from November 20 to December 1. All DHTech members will be able to vote for one candidate. We will send out a membership confirmation email before November 20. If you do not get one but believe you are a member of DHTech, please get in touch with us (dhtech.community@gmail.com).
```
